hey welcome to section 2 creating your
first smart contract in aetherium
in the last section you learned how
smart contracts and user interfaces work
together to create decentralized
applications now it's time to dive into
smart contracts and learn what they are
how they work and create the smart
contract we'll use in our online
marketplace in this video you're gonna
learn specifically what a contract is
how it works on the etherion blockchain
and how to create one yourself I'm also
going to introduce you to the etherium
virtual machine and make sure that you
really understand what it means when we
say something is on the blockchain a
contract is a collection of code and
data that resides at a specific address
on the etherion blockchain if you
struggle to visualize what a blockchain
is think of a globally shared
transactional database this means that
everyone can read entries in the
database and you can change the contents
of the database with transactions the
code in your contract creates those
transactions so there's a few important
notes to know about transactions as the
named transaction implies the change you
want to make is done either completely
or not at all
once a transactions applied no other
transaction can alter it finally all
transactions are cryptographically
signed by the sender the etherium
virtual machine or EVM provides the
runtime environment for smart contracts
it's sandboxed and isolated so the code
running inside the e vm has no access to
network file systems or other processes
it also has limited access to other
smart contracts there's two types of
accounts there's external accounts that
are controlled by public private key
pairs this is a type of accounts that
humans have for example in their
aetherium wallets
there's also contract accounts which are
controlled by the code stored together
with the account now both of these
accounts are treated identically by the
EVM
you may be wondering where I'm going
with all this you came here to learn how
to create a smart contractor right well
I really want to make sure you
understand one thing remember when I
said the blockchain is like a globally
shared transactional database think
about that phrase globally shared and
while you do I'll bring up the next
slide
this is a Google search I did for crypto
kitties source code take a look at the
fifth link it's a link to either scan
which is an aetherium block Explorer if
I click that link look at this the
entire code and the smart contract for
crypto kitties is in here
so the point I want you to take away is
every line of code you write inside a
smart contract is publicly viewable that
means no passwords no security keys no
proprietary or confidential business
information should ever be put inside a
smart contract okay with that out of the
way let's create our contract our
contracts are written in a language
called solidity in our online
marketplace application we're gonna
store our smart contracts in the
contracts folder common Convention
recommends that you use camel case or
cap words formatting and your contract
files will end with the dot sol prefix
for example if I want to write a
contract called my first contract I'll
name it my first contract Sol and
capitalize the first letter of each word
in the name the M the F and the C so in
my code editor I want to right click on
the contracts folder create a new file
and I'm going to call my contract
merchandise and then give it a dot Sol
file extension all solidity contracts
start with the same first line we start
with the keyword pragma it's required
and it tells the compiler how to treat
the source code in this case it's going
to treat it as solidity code because
that's what we specified next next time
including the version of solidity
installed on my system and I can get
that by opening a terminal and typing
truffle version now including a carrot
at the beginning of the version number
and this is important the carrot tells
the compiler that it can use any version
of the solidity compiler from version
0.4 dot 23 up to but not including
version 0.5 0 this ensures that a
breaking change in the 0.5 family
doesn't break my smart contract finally
the line ends with the semicolon
so back in my code editor I'm gonna type
pragma solidity 0.42 23 semicolon
now we can declare our contract and this
looks much like a class definition if
you're familiar with other programming
languages we use the keyword contract to
identify the contract and then we give
it a name using the camel case or word
cap formatting most of the time this
contract name is going to match the file
name after the contract name we have a
set of curly braces and it's inside
those curly braces where we'll put our
smart contract code
so we'll specify the keyword contract
give our contract a name and then our
curly braces and now we're ready to
start writing the code that makes up our
smart contract in this video you learned
what a contract is and how to create one
you also learned that the etherium
virtual machine is the environment that
creates transactions to execute the
functions in your contract and store
those transactions in the globally
available blockchain next I'm going to
introduce you to the different datatypes
and solidity and we're going to use
those to create the functions we use in
our online marketplace I'll see you
there